[MenWithoutWomen_Hemingway | 3000 words | words per sentence 8.0 | Flesch-Kincaid 1.8 | Lexile 673]

an idea what it's like." "It ought to be better out in the country than in town." "With me now," Jack said, "it don't make any difference where I am. You can't have an idea what it's like." "Have another drink." "Am I getting soused? Do I talk funny?" "You're coming on all right." "You can't have an idea what it's like. They ain't anybody can have an idea what it's like." "Except the wife," I said. "She knows," Jack said. "She knows all right. She knows. You bet she knows." "Put some water in that," I said. "Jerry," says Jack, "you can't have an idea what it gets to be like." He was good and drunk. He was looking at me steady. His eyes were sort of too steady. "You'll sleep all right," I said. "Listen, Jerry," Jack says. "You want to make some money? Get some money down on Walcott." "Yes?" "Listen, Jerry," Jack put down the glass. "I'm not drunk now, see? You know what I'm betting on him? Fifty grand." "That's a lot of dough." "Fifty grand," Jack says, "at two to one. I'll get twenty-five thousand bucks. Get some money on him, Jerry." "It sounds good," I said. "How can I beat him?" Jack says. "It ain't crooked. How can I beat him? Why not make money on it?" "Put some water in that," I said. "I'm through after this fight," Jack says. "I'm through with it. I got to take a beating. Why shouldn't I make money on it?" "Sure." "I ain't slept for a week," Jack says. "All night I lay awake and worry my can off. I can't sleep, Jerry. You ain't got an idea what it's like when you can't sleep." "Sure." "I can't sleep. That's all. I just can't sleep. What's the use of taking care of yourself all these years when you can't sleep?" "It's bad." "You ain't got an idea what it's like, Jerry, when you can't sleep." "Put some water in that," I said. Well, about eleven o'clock Jack passes out and I put him to bed. Finally he's so he can't keep from sleeping. I helped him get his clothes off and got him into bed. "You'll sleep all right, Jack," I said. "Sure," Jack says, "I'll sleep now." "Good-night, Jack," I said. "Good-night, Jerry," Jack says. "You're the only friend I got." "Oh, hell," I said. "You're the only friend I got," Jack says, "the only friend I got." "Go to sleep," I said. "I'll sleep," Jack says. Downstairs Hogan was sitting at the desk in the office reading the papers. He looked up. "Well, you get your boy friend to sleep?" he asks. "He's off." "It's better for him than not sleeping," Hogan said. "Sure." "You'd have a hell of a time explaining that to these sport writers though," Hogan said. "Well, I'm going to bed myself," I said. "Good-night," said Hogan. In the morning I came downstairs about eight o'clock and got some breakfast. Hogan had his two customers out in the barn doing exercises. I went out and watched them. "One! Two! Three! Four!" Hogan was counting for them. "Hello, Jerry," he said. "Is Jack up yet?" "No. He's still sleeping." I went back to my room and packed up to go in to town. About nine-thirty I heard Jack getting up in the next room. When I heard him go downstairs I went down after him. Jack was sitting at the breakfast table. Hogan had come in and was standing beside the table. "How do you feel, Jack?" I asked him. "Not so bad." "Sleep well?" Hogan asked. "I slept all right," Jack said. "I got a thick tongue but I ain't got a head." "Good," said Hogan. "That was good liquor." "Put it on the bill," Jack says. "What time you want to go into town?" Hogan asked. "Before lunch," Jack says. "The eleven o'clock train." "Sit down, Jerry," Jack said. Hogan went out. I sat down at the table. Jack was eating a grape-fruit. When he'd find a seed he'd spit it out in the spoon and dump it on the plate. "I guess I was pretty stewed last night," he started. "You drank some liquor." "I guess I said a lot of fool things." "You weren't bad." "Where's Hogan?" he asked. He was through with the grape-fruit. "He's out in front in the office." "What did I say about betting on the fight?" Jack asked. He was holding the spoon and sort of poking at the grape-fruit with it. The girl came in with some ham and eggs and took away the grape-fruit. "Bring me another glass of milk," Jack said to her. She went out. "You said you had fifty grand on Walcott," I said. "That's right," Jack said. "That's a lot of money." "I don't feel too good about it," Jack said. "Something might happen." "No," Jack said. "He wants the title bad. They'll be shooting with him all right." "You can't ever tell." "No. He wants the title. It's worth a lot of money to him." "Fifty grand is a lot of money," I said. "It's business," said Jack. "I can't win. You know I can't win anyway." "As long as you're in there you got a chance." "No," Jack says. "I'm all through. It's just business." "How do you feel?" "Pretty good," Jack said. "The sleep was what I needed." "You might go good." "I'll give them a good show," Jack said. After breakfast Jack called up his wife on the long-distance. He was inside the booth telephoning. "That's the first time he's called her up since he's out here," Hogan said. "He writes her every day." "Sure," Hogan says, "a letter only costs two cents." Hogan said good-by to us and Bruce, the nigger rubber, drove us down to the train in the cart. "Good-by, Mr. Brennan," Bruce said at the train, "I sure hope you knock his can off." "So long," Jack said. He gave Bruce two dollars. Bruce had worked on him a lot. He looked kind of disappointed. Jack saw me looking at Bruce holding the two dollars. "It's all in the bill," he said. "Hogan charged me for the rubbing." On the train going into town Jack didn't talk. He sat in the corner of the seat with his ticket in his hat-band and looked out of the window. Once he turned and spoke to me. "I told the wife I'd take a room at the Shelby to-night," he said. "It's just around the corner from the Garden. I can go up to the house to-morrow morning." "That's a good idea," I said. "Your wife ever see you fight, Jack?" "No," Jack says. "She never seen me fight." I thought he must be figuring on taking an awful beating if he doesn't want to go home afterward. In town we took a taxi up to the Shelby. A boy came out and took our bags and we went in to the desk. "How much are the rooms?" Jack asked. "We only have double rooms," the clerk says. "I can give you a nice double room for ten dollars." "That's too steep." "I can give you a double room for seven dollars." "With a bath?" "Certainly." "You might as well bunk with me, Jerry," Jack says. "Oh," I said, "I'll sleep down at my brother-in-law's." "I don't mean for you to pay it," Jack says. "I just want to get my money's worth." "Will you register, please?" the clerk says. He looked at the names. "Number 238, Mister Brennan." We went up in the elevator. It was a nice big room with two beds and a door opening into a bath-room. "This is pretty good," Jack says. The boy who brought us up pulled up the curtains and brought in our bags. Jack didn't make any move, so I gave the boy a quarter. We washed up and Jack said we better go out and get something to eat. We ate a lunch at Jimmey Handley's place. Quite a lot of the boys were there. When we were about half through eating, John came in and sat down with us. Jack didn't talk much. "How are you on the weight, Jack?" John asked him. Jack was putting away a pretty good lunch. "I could make it with my clothes on," Jack said. He never had to worry about taking off weight. He was a natural welter-weight and he'd never gotten fat. He'd lost weight out at Hogan's. "Well, that's one thing you never had to worry about," John said. "That's one thing," Jack says. We went around to the garden to weigh in after lunch. The match was made at a hundred forty-seven pounds at three o'clock. Jack stepped on the scales with a towel around him. The bar didn't move. Walcott had just weighed and was standing with a lot of people around him. "Let's see what you weigh, Jack," Freedman, Walcott's manager said. "All right, weigh _him_ then," Jack jerked his head toward Walcott. "Drop the towel," Freedman said. "What do you make it?" Jack asked the fellows who were weighing. "One hundred and forty-three pounds," the fat man who was weighing said. "You're down fine, Jack," Freedman says. "Weigh _him_," Jack says. Walcott came over. He was a blond with wide shoulders and arms like a heavyweight. He didn't have much legs. Jack stood about half a head taller than he did. "Hello, Jack," he said. His face was plenty marked up. "Hello," said Jack. "How you feel?" "Good," Walcott says. He dropped the towel from around his waist and stood on the scales. He had the widest shoulders and back you ever saw. "One hundred and forty-six pounds and twelve ounces." Walcott stepped off and grinned at Jack. "Well," John says to him, "Jack's spotting you about four pounds." "More than that when I come in, kid," Walcott says. "I'm going to go and eat now." We went back and Jack got dressed. "He's a pretty tough-looking boy," Jack says to me. "He looks as though he'd been hit plenty of times." "Oh, yes," Jack says. "He ain't hard to hit." "Where are you going?" John asked when Jack was dressed. "Back to the hotel," Jack says. "You looked after everything?" "Yes," John says. "It's all looked after." "I'm going to lie down a while," Jack says. "I'll come around for you about a quarter to seven and we'll go and eat." "All right." Up at the hotel Jack took off his shoes and his coat and lay down for a while. I wrote a letter. I looked over a couple of times and Jack wasn't sleeping. He was lying perfectly still but every once in a while his eyes would open. Finally he sits up. "Want to play some cribbage, Jerry?" he says. "Sure," I said. He went over to his suitcase and got out the cards and the cribbage board. We played cribbage and he won three dollars off me. John knocked at the door and came in. "Want to play some cribbage, John?" Jack asked him. John put his kelly down on the table. It was all wet. His coat was wet too. "Is it raining?" Jack asks. "It's pouring," John says. "The taxi I had, got tied up in the traffic and I got out and walked." "Come on, play some cribbage," Jack says. "You ought to go and eat." "No," says Jack. "I don't want to eat yet." So they played cribbage for about half an hour and Jack won a dollar and a half off him. "Well, I suppose we got to go eat," Jack says. He went to the window and looked out. "Is it still raining?" "Yes." "Let's eat in the hotel," John says. "All right," Jack says, "I'll play you once more to see who pays for the meal." After a little while Jack gets up and says, "You buy the meal, John," and we went downstairs and ate in the big dining-room. After we ate we went upstairs and Jack played cribbage with John again and won two dollars and a half off him. Jack was feeling pretty good. John had a bag with him with all his stuff in it. Jack took off his shirt and collar and put on a jersey and a sweater, so he wouldn't catch cold when he came out, and put his ring clothes and his bathrobe in a bag. "You all ready?" John asks him. "I'll call up and have them get a taxi." Pretty soon the telephone rang and they said the taxi was waiting. We rode down in the elevator and went out through the lobby, and got in a taxi and rode around to the Garden. It was raining hard but there was a lot of people outside on the streets. The Garden was sold out. As we came in on our way to the dressing-room I saw how full it was. It looked like half a mile down to the ring. It was all dark. Just the lights over the ring. "It's a good thing, with this rain, they didn't try and pull this fight in the ball park," John said. "They got a good crowd," Jack says. "This is a fight that would draw a lot more than the Garden could hold." "You can't tell about the weather," Jack says. John came to the door of the dressing-room and poked his head in. Jack was sitting there with his bathrobe on, he had his arms folded and was looking at the floor. John had a couple of handlers with him. They looked over his shoulder. Jack looked up. "Is he in?" he asked. "He's just gone down," John said. We started down. Walcott was just getting into the ring. The crowd gave him a big hand. He climbed through between the ropes and put his two fists together and smiled, and shook them at the crowd, first at one side of the ring, then at the other, and then sat down. Jack got a good hand coming down through the crowd. Jack is Irish and the Irish always get a pretty good hand. An Irishman don't draw in New York like a Jew or an Italian but they always get a good hand. Jack climbed up and bent down to go through the ropes and Walcott came over from his corner and pushed the rope down for Jack to go through. The crowd thought that was wonderful. Walcott put his hand on Jack's shoulder and they stood there just for a second. "So you're going to be one of these popular champions," Jack says to him. "Take your goddam hand off my shoulder." "Be yourself," Walcott says. This is all great for the crowd. How gentlemanly the boys are before the fight! How they wish each other luck! Solly Freedman came over to our corner while Jack is bandaging his hands and John is over in Walcott's corner. Jack puts his thumb through the slit in the bandage and then wrapped his hand nice and smooth. I taped it around the wrist and twice across the knuckles. "Hey," Freedman says. "Where do you get all that tape?" "Feel of it," Jack says. "It's soft, ain't it? Don't be a hick." Freedman stands there all the time while Jack bandages the other hand, and one of the boys that's going to handle him brings the gloves and I pull them on and work them around. "Say, Freedman," Jack asks, "what nationality is this Walcott?" "I don't know," Solly says. "He's some sort of a Dane." "He's a Bohemian," the lad who brought the gloves said. The referee called them out to the centre of the ring and Jack walks out. Walcott comes out smiling. They met and the referee put his arm on each of their shoulders. "Hello, popularity," Jack says to Walcott. "Be yourself." "What do you call yourself 'Walcott' for?" Jack says. "Didn't you know he was a nigger?" "Listen--" says the referee, and he gives them the same old line. Once Walcott interrupts him. He grabs Jack's arm and says, "Can I hit when he's got me like this?" "Keep your hands off me," Jack says. "There ain't no moving-pictures of this." They went back to their corners. I lifted the bathrobe off Jack and he leaned on the ropes and flexed his knees a couple of times and scuffed his shoes in the rosin. The gong rang and Jack turned quick and went out. Walcott came toward him and they touched gloves and as soon as Walcott dropped his hands Jack jumped his left into his face twice. There wasn't anybody ever boxed better than Jack. Walcott was after him, going forward all the time with his chin on his chest. He's a hooker and he carries his hands pretty low. All he knows is to get in there and sock. But every time he gets in there close, Jack has the left hand in his face. It's just as though it's automatic. Jack just raises the left hand up and it's in Walcott's face. Three or four times Jack brings the right over but Walcott gets it on the shoulder or high up on the head. He's just like all these hookers. The only thing he's afraid of is another one of the same kind. He's covered everywhere you can hurt him. He don't care about a left-hand in his face. After about four rounds Jack has him bleeding bad and his face all cut up, but every time Walcott's got in close he's socked so hard he's got two big red patches on both sides just below Jack's ribs. Every time he gets in close, Jack ties him up, then gets one hand loose and uppercuts him, but when Walcott gets his hands loose he socks Jack in the
