[MenWithoutWomen_Hemingway | 3000 words | words per sentence 6.7 | Flesch-Kincaid 1.3 | Lexile 587]

says Jack. "You'll be a damn sight sicker when Walcott gets through with you." "Sure," says Jack, "maybe I will. But I know I'm sick of you." So Soldier went off on the train to town that same morning. I went down with him to the train. He was good and sore. "I was just kidding him," he said. We were waiting on the platform. "He can't pull that stuff with me, Jerry." "He's nervous and crabby," I said. "He's a good fellow, Soldier." "The hell he is. The hell he's ever been a good fellow." "Well," I said, "so long, Soldier." The train had come in. He climbed up with his bag. "So long, Jerry," he says. "You be in town before the fight?" "I don't think so." "See you then." He went in and the conductor swung up and the train went out. I rode back to the farm in the cart. Jack was on the porch writing a letter to his wife. The mail had come and I got the papers and went over on the other side of the porch and sat down to read. Hogan came out the door and walked over to me. "Did he have a jam with Soldier?" "Not a jam," I said. "He just told him to go back to town." "I could see it coming," Hogan said. "He never liked Soldier much." "No. He don't like many people." "He's a pretty cold one," Hogan said. "Well, he's always been fine to me." "Me too," Hogan said. "I got no kick on him. He's a cold one, though." Hogan went in through the screen door and I sat there on the porch and read the papers. It was just starting to get fall weather and it's nice country there in Jersey, up in the hills, and after I read the paper through I sat there and looked out at the country and the road down below against the woods with cars going along it, lifting the dust up. It was fine weather and pretty nice-looking country. Hogan came to the door and I said, "Say, Hogan, haven't you got anything to shoot out here?" "No," Hogan said. "Only sparrows." "Seen the paper?" I said to Hogan. "What's in it?" "Sande booted three of them in yesterday." "I got that on the telephone last night." "You follow them pretty close, Hogan?" I asked. "Oh, I keep in touch with them," Hogan said. "How about Jack?" I says. "Does he still play them?" "Him?" said Hogan. "Can you see him doing it?" Just then Jack came around the corner with the letter in his hand. He's wearing a sweater and an old pair of pants and boxing shoes. "Got a stamp, Hogan?" he asks. "Give me the letter," Hogan said. "I'll mail it for you." "Say, Jack," I said, "didn't you used to play the ponies?" "Sure." "I knew you did. I knew I used to see you out at Sheepshead." "What did you lay off them for?" Hogan asked. "Lost money." Jack sat down on the porch by me. He leaned back against a post. He shut his eyes in the sun. "Want a chair?" Hogan asked. "No," said Jack. "This is fine." "It's a nice day," I said. "It's pretty nice out in the country." "I'd a damn sight rather be in town with the wife." "Well, you only got another week." "Yes," Jack says. "That's so." We sat there on the porch. Hogan was inside at the office. "What do you think about the shape I'm in?" Jack asked me. "Well, you can't tell," I said. "You got a week to get around into form." "Don't stall me." "Well," I said, "you're not right." "I'm not sleeping," Jack said. "You'll be all right in a couple of days." "No," says Jack, "I got the insomnia." "What's on your mind?" "I miss the wife." "Have her come out." "No. I'm too old for that." "We'll take a long walk before you turn in and get you good and tired." "Tired!" Jack says. "I'm tired all the time." He was that way all week. He wouldn't sleep at night and he'd get up in the morning feeling that way, you know, when you can't shut your hands. "He's stale as poorhouse cake," Hogan said. "He's nothing." "I never seen Walcott," I said. "He'll kill him," said Hogan. "He'll tear him in two." "Well," I said, "everybody's got to get it sometime." "Not like this, though," Hogan said. "They'll think he never trained. It gives the farm a black eye." "You hear what the reporters said about him?" "Didn't I! They said he was awful. They said they oughtn't to let him fight." "Well," I said, "they're always wrong, ain't they?" "Yes," said Hogan. "But this time they're right." "What the hell do they know about whether a man's right or not?" "Well," said Hogan, "they're not such fools." "All they did was pick Willard at Toledo. This Lardner, he's so wise now, ask him about when he picked Willard at Toledo." "Aw, he wasn't out," Hogan said. "He only writes the big fights." "I don't care who they are," I said. "What the hell do they know? They can write maybe, but what the hell do they know?" "You don't think Jack's in any shape, do you?" Hogan asked. "No. He's through. All he needs is to have Corbett pick him to win for it to be all over." "Well, Corbett'll pick him," Hogan says. "Sure. He'll pick him." That night Jack didn't sleep any either. The next morning was the last day before the fight. After breakfast we were out on the porch again. "What do you think about, Jack, when you can't sleep?" I said. "Oh, I worry," Jack says. "I worry about property I got up in the Bronx, I worry about property I got in Florida. I worry about the kids. I worry about the wife. Sometimes I think about fights. I think about that kike Ted Lewis and I get sore. I got some stocks and I worry about them. What the hell don't I think about?" "Well," I said, "to-morrow night it'll all be over." "Sure," said Jack. "That always helps a lot, don't it? That just fixes everything all up, I suppose. Sure." He was sore all day. We didn't do any work. Jack just moved around a little to loosen up. He shadow-boxed a few rounds. He didn't even look good doing that. He skipped the rope a little while. He couldn't sweat. "He'd be better not to do any work at all," Hogan said. We were standing watching him skip rope. "Don't he ever sweat at all any more?" "He can't sweat." "Do you suppose he's got the con? He never had any trouble making weight, did he?" "No, he hasn't got any con. He just hasn't got anything inside any more." "He ought to sweat," said Hogan. Jack came over, skipping the rope. He was skipping up and down in front of us, forward and back, crossing his arms every third time. "Well," he says. "What are you buzzards talking about?" "I don't think you ought to work any more," Hogan says. "You'll be stale." "Wouldn't that be awful?" Jack says and skips away down the floor, slapping the rope hard. That afternoon John Collins showed up out at the farm. Jack was up in his room. John, came out in a car from town. He had a couple of friends with him. The car stopped and they all got out. "Where's Jack?" John asked me. "Up in his room, lying down." "Lying down?" "Yes," I said. "How is he?" I looked at the two fellows that were with John. "They're friends of his," John said. "He's pretty bad," I said. "What's the matter with him?" "He don't sleep." "Hell," said John. "That Irishman could never sleep." "He isn't right," I said. "Hell," John said. "He's never right. I've had him for ten years and he's never been right yet." The fellows who were with him laughed. "I want you to shake hands with Mr. Morgan and Mr. Steinfelt," John said. "This is Mr. Doyle. He's been training Jack." "Glad to meet you," I said. "Let's go up and see the boy," the fellow called Morgan said. "Let's have a look at him," Steinfelt said. We all went upstairs. "Where's Hogan?" John asked. "He's out in the barn with a couple of his customers," I said. "He got many people out here now?" John asked. "Just two." "Pretty quiet, ain't it?" Morgan said. "Yes," I said. "It's pretty quiet." We were outside Jack's room. John knocked on the door. There wasn't any answer. "Maybe he's asleep," I said. "What the hell's he sleeping in the daytime for?" John turned the handle and we all went in. Jack was lying asleep on the bed. He was face down and his face was in the pillow. Both his arms were around the pillow. "Hey, Jack!" John said to him. Jack's head moved a little on the pillow. "Jack!" John says, leaning over him. Jack just dug a little deeper in the pillow. John touched him on the shoulder. Jack sat up and looked at us. He hadn't shaved and he was wearing an old sweater. "Christ! Why can't you let me sleep?" he says to John. "Don't be sore," John says. "I didn't mean to wake you up." "Oh no," Jack says. "Of course not." "You know Morgan and Steinfelt," John said. "Glad to see you," Jack says. "How do you feel, Jack," Morgan asks him. "Fine," Jack says. "How the hell would I feel?" "You look fine," Steinfelt says. "Yes, don't I," says Jack. "Say," he says to John. "You're my manager. You get a big enough cut. Why the hell don't you come out here when the reporters was out! You want Jerry and me to talk to them?" "I had Lew fighting in Philadelphia," John said. "What the hell's that to me?" Jack says. "You're my manager. You get a big enough cut, don't you? You aren't making me any money in Philadelphia, are you? Why the hell aren't you out here when I ought to have you?" "Hogan was here." "Hogan," Jack says. "Hogan's as dumb as I am." "Soldier Bathlett was out here wukking with you for a while, wasn't he?" Steinfelt said to change the subject. "Yes, he was out here," Jack says. "He was out here all right." "Say, Jerry," John said to me. "Would you go and find Hogan and tell him we want to see him in about half an hour?" "Sure," I said. "Why the hell can't he stick around?" Jack says. "Stick around, Jerry." Morgan and Steinfelt looked at each other. "Quiet down, Jack," John said to him. "I better go find Hogan," I said. "All right, if you want to go," Jack says. "None of these guys are going to send you away, though." "I'll go find Hogan," I said. Hogan was out in the gym in the barn. He had a couple of his health-farm patients with the gloves on. They neither one wanted to hit the other, for fear the other would come back and hit him. "That'll do," Hogan said when he saw me come in. "You can stop the slaughter. You gentlemen take a shower and Bruce will rub you down." They climbed out through the ropes and Hogan came over to me. "John Collins is out with a couple of friends to see Jack," I said. "I saw them come up in the car." "Who are the two fellows with John?" "They're what you call wise boys," Hogan said. "Don't you know them two?" "No," I said. "That's Happy Steinfelt and Lew Morgan. They got a pool-room." "I been away a long time," I said. "Sure," said Hogan. "That Happy Steinfelt's a big operator." "I've heard his name," I said. "He's a pretty smooth boy," Hogan said. "They're a couple of sharpshooters." "Well," I said. "They want to see us in half an hour." "You mean they don't want to see us until a half an hour?" "That's it." "Come on in the office," Hogan said. "To hell with those sharpshooters." After about thirty minutes or so Hogan and I went upstairs. We knocked on Jack's door. They were talking inside the room. "Wait a minute," somebody said. "To hell with that stuff," Hogan said. "When you want to see me I'm down in the office." We heard the door unlock. Steinfelt opened it. "Come on in, Hogan," he says. "We're all going to have a drink." "Well," says Hogan. "That's something." We went in. Jack was sitting on the bed. John and Morgan were sitting on a couple of chairs. Steinfelt was standing up. "You're a pretty mysterious lot of boys," Hogan said. "Hello, Danny," John says. "Hello, Danny," Morgan says and shakes hands. Jack doesn't say anything. He just sits there on the bed. He ain't with the others. He's all by himself. He was wearing an old blue jersey and pants and had on boxing shoes. He needed a shave. Steinfelt and Morgan were dressers. John was quite a dresser too. Jack sat there looking Irish and tough. Steinfelt brought out a bottle and Hogan brought in some glasses and everybody had a drink. Jack and I took one and the rest of them went on and had two or three each. "Better save some for your ride back," Hogan said. "Don't you worry. We got plenty," Morgan said. Jack hadn't drunk anything since the one drink. He was standing up and looking at them. Morgan was sitting on the bed where Jack had sat. "Have a drink, Jack," John said and handed him the glass and the bottle. "No," Jack said, "I never liked to go to these wakes." They all laughed. Jack didn't laugh. They were all feeling pretty good when they left. Jack stood on the porch when they got into the car. They waved to him. "So long," Jack said. We had supper. Jack didn't say anything all during the meal except, "Will you pass me this?" or "Will you pass me that?" The two health-farm patients ate at the same table with us. They were pretty nice fellows. After we finished eating we went out on the porch. It was dark early. "Like to take a walk, Jerry?" Jack asked. "Sure," I said. We put on our coats and started out. It was quite a way down to the main road and then we walked along the main road about a mile and a half. Cars kept going by and we would pull out to the side until they were past. Jack didn't say anything. After we had stepped out into the bushes to let a big car go by Jack said, "To hell with this walking. Come on back to Hogan's." We went along a side road that cut up over the hill and cut across the fields back to Hogan's. We could see the lights of the house up on the hill. We came around to the front of the house and there standing in the doorway was Hogan. "Have a good walk?" Hogan asked. "Oh, fine," Jack said. "Listen, Hogan. Have you got any liquor?" "Sure," says Hogan. "What's the idea?" "Send it up to the room," Jack says. "I'm going to sleep to-night." "You're the doctor," Hogan says. "Come on up to the room, Jerry," Jack says. Upstairs Jack sat on the bed with his head in his hands. "Ain't it a life?" Jack says. Hogan brought in a quart of liquor and two glasses. "Want some ginger-ale?" "What do you think I want to do, get sick?" "I just asked you," said Hogan. "Have a drink?" said Jack. "No, thanks," said Hogan. He went out. "How about you, Jerry?" "I'll have one with you," I said. Jack poured out a couple of drinks. "Now," he said, "I want to take it slow and easy." "Put some water in it," I said. "Yes," Jack said. "I guess that's better." We had a couple of drinks without saying anything. Jack started to pour me another. "No," I said, "that's all I want." "All right," Jack said. He poured himself out another big shot and put water in it. He was lighting up a little. "That was a fine bunch out here this afternoon," he said. "They don't take any chances, those two." Then a little later, "Well," he says, "they're right. What the hell's the good in taking chances?" "Don't you want another, Jerry?" he said. "Come on, drink along with me." "I don't need it, Jack," I said. "I feel all right." "Just have one more," Jack said. It was softening him up. "All right," I said. Jack poured one for me and another big one for himself. "You know," he said, "I like liquor pretty well. If I hadn't been boxing I would have drunk quite a lot." "Sure," I said. "You know," he said, "I missed a lot, boxing." "You made plenty of money." "Sure, that's what I'm after. You know I miss a lot, Jerry." "How do you mean?" "Well," he says, "like about the wife. And being away from home so much. It don't do my girls any good. 'Whose your old man?' some of those society kids'll say to them. 'My old man's Jack Brennan.' That don't do them any good." "Hell," I said, "all that makes a difference is if they got dough." "Well," says Jack, "I got the dough for them all right." He poured out another drink. The bottle was about empty. "Put some water in it," I said. Jack poured in some water. "You know," he says, "you ain't got any idea how I miss the wife." "Sure." "You ain't got any idea. You can't have
