Book draft Idea
So, I was thinking of a story, a HS student gets sent back in time, and wakes up in ancient rome. How is never explained. The Emperor is Trajan, it's before The Dacian Campaigns.
He makes a hot air balloon, something a bit more modern, airless tires, like what we used with mars rovers, basically just interweaved tires that would be a drastic boost over wooden tires, water wheel+cotton mills or looms, trebuchets, telescope/binoculars, what about soap? Or was that already invented? Or explaining illnesses/bacteria? Maybe done like, when gods make you sick, they actually make many small invisible super natural creatures to climb on you, to attack from the inside?, calculus, Nitroglycerin, Crop rotation systems Better plows Water purification at scale Paper or the 1st printing press Better encryption?, making grandfather clocks, or wrist watches, trains (changes from all roads lead to rome, to all tracks lead to rome), while you are giving their crafters realistic technology, you always give them nearly impossible tech as well? Like you give them a pretty detailed grandfather clock, a somewhat explanation on wrist watches, and a casual mention about quartz clocks with just a very high level explanation? And mention things that they can not build at all, like computers, phones, heck even missiles or rockets. Show plans similar to the 1st air planes, at the same time you show hot air balloons, and even mention jets or space ships to get to the moon. Make better sails for ships, but also mention steam ships, and even submarines or aircraft carriers. Include basic ideas for all kinds of technologies, like 3D printers, washers/Dryers/Fridges, Bidets, AC, vacuums, displays, etc. And mention how some of these are just the basics, but they could easily make way better ones if they are actually good. Like show the microscope, but say you can make even better if you can figure it out. Heck, lie and say that if you build it good enough, they can even see the building blocks that make up everything (atoms), but it might take some effort or even different approaches. Or like the trains, mention that in the future good trains can go 500, or even 1,000 mph. But those are only made by the smartest who can learn how to make the train float. I guess it would possibly help if you can encourage writing stories. If you can make sci-fi or fantasy stories become a thing, then the civilization will likely come up with things themselves. Maybe once you get some money, you , make a challenge you want to read the best stories, and will pay top dollar for stories about XYZ. If you can make a yearly challenge to write the best fantasy book, or sci-fi books, and make them well published, even after you die, others will be being inspired by those. That should be enough to have the authors continue to go for more ideas, which will encourage researchers.
I was thinking something like: Well, I woke up this morning, and I was in the middle of nowhere, well not really nowhere, but not at my house. All I had was my work clothes from where I fell asleep, and my phone in my hands. I had no service, GPS didn't work. After wandering around for a bit, I found some buildings. But it was all weird, like no well made buildings, more shabby. And everyone speaking something I can't understand, not English. And then I saw the collusem. You know, the one in Rome. But uh, it's not broken. It looks like it's new. I mean it's a bit away, but it's 100% the Colosseum. It looks like it's kinda in the middle of a small town? It's not a city by my standards, but if this is Rome, maybe my standards is a bit different? Hmm, if I had to guess like 500k population? Maybe a bit more, I'm not too good at estimating. But like, no sky scrapers, no fancy buildings, etc. I have no clue how I'm talking to you. I tried pulling up Google translate to try translation, but it said no Internet. I did you just hoping/instinct. Phone says no Internet still. They are all wearing old clothes and looking at me weird. Like, no jeans or T-shirts anywhere. Language kinda sounds like a mix between Spanish, Italian, and English? I can't really understand it though. Like it looks brand new. No damage, walls are clean, looks like it was just finished. No idea how I got here. I went to sleep dead tired, woke up here. Maybe I'm dreaming? I mean, I can read stuff on my phone just fine. Like it's at 98%, I can read your messages, etc. I can't read anything I see though elsewhere, I think it's in another language. My hands looks correct. Pinching hurt, but nothing else. Honestly, I don't think time travel is realistic, but I'm kinda freaking out, and Idk what is a reasonable expectation. I mean, if I was asleep, you couldn't be responding right? Maybe a very detailed hallucination, but man, if that is it, that's a better hallucination than any I've seen. I tried calling 911 already, it said no signal. I don't think I'm in danger, but these people seem to be avoiding me. They are talking to one another, but I can't understand them at all. I know that technology doesn't work like that, but like, time travel isn't a thing either right? But as for the you responding, I could hallucinate or dream your responses, but you wouldn't be experiencing or logging that right? Idk about the historical site theory, but idk how to dis/prove it. My phone says there is no wifi signals nearby. Like, it's acting like I'm in a faraday cage or in the wilderness. I can't get near any of these people, they keep running away when I get near? Oh, hey, there seems to be some guards coming towards me? They don't have guns though, they have spears? They "arrested" me. Kinda, they didn't use any hand cuffs, they used rope. I'm now in a little prison cell. They don't seem to speak my language. And they don't seem to understand my phone, but they seem confused by my clothes? The guards treated me kinda nice, like police officers arresting a rich business man. There wearing like iron armor, red capes, large red shirts, and scale armor? But not like medieval armor you see in museums from medieval times. More like snake scales, if that makes sense? So, I shouldn't say I'm from the future (However I could even figure out to say that)? I should say like I'm an engineer or mathematician or merchant from another country? Oh, what if I draw a simple map of the world? My geography isn't the best, but I can easily draw europe's coastline and the rest of the world closish? Like, I could say my country explored a bit, and I'm a scholar from there. Not exactly wrong.
Ok, what else could I do to be useful? Like, basic math and geography will help now, but I need things in the future as well right? Oh, what about a hot air ballon? I won't be able to do that for like a year or so, but I should be able to make it eventually. The basic idea isn't that hard. And having something that can fly will be pretty useful to them, for geography or for like military archers. Oh, and making paper. That's basically just taking old clothes, soaking them in water for a few months, and making sheets right?
I don't think I could make penicillion, that was pure luck right with the mold? Hmm, I could probably make a telescope or binoculars maybe? Oh, could I make the pressureless tires that NASA used for their rovers? They don't have bamboo or stretchy metal, but it should work with other metal? If not, I guess springs for suspensions for vehicles would be feasible even with old copper. A grandfather clock should also be easy. Didn't korea invent like heated floors? That would probably be helpful. IDK when compound bows were invented, but that would probably be better than long bows. And didn't the Japanese make their swords better by folding the metal? If I recall, you can get the performance with only like 3 folds. And while we can't make good steel, didn't the vikings make crude steel by adding bones and ash to their iron? I don't think coal or oil was known about at this time right?
What about the old basic water filtration with gravel, sand, and charcoal? IDK if they have that. Boil water, maybe I can get tea to be popular? That requires boiling water, but IDK if any tea leaves were around back now. Man, learning to read and write Latin is going to be tough. I can read Shakespearean English. Oh, what about making like Romeo and Juliet, or other famous stories? I would love to invent electricty, but I don't think that would be possible even with 10 years and making myself valuable to the government would it? Like, even just basic lights. Maybe I could make a weave, they had water wheels right? And that was one of the inventions that really kick started the industrial revolution right? Well, mint or chamoile tea still works. Heck, doesn't chamoile promote sleep? What other things were invented at the beginning of the industrial revolution? I could probably add encryption. The caeser cipher is around right now right? I could do a few improvements.
As I establish myself, I could probably ask for things that aren't possible, or things that require more skilled or better craftsman right? Like, making gear/spring based clocks are probably better than anything they have, but I don't think their craftsman can make that? Or like microscopes require really small glass beads right? Was soap a common thing now? I would assume so? Also, pulley systems is common right? As are screws and nails? And hinges? Oh, what about keys and locks? Hmm, actually that might be too hard for them right? I can also do basic games, like tic tac toe, or checkers, or chess.
Hmm, they seem to have slaves? Just what I could observe while walking / escorting through the town. Also, their isn't a lot of signs/words I could see? Is literacy rare? Anything I can create to change that? Like something that makes literacy more useful? Or makes slaves less useful? I don't have the speaking capability to convince them to not do that, but maybe I can make it just change through inventions, without making my views known?
I doubt I can make better ships can I? Not without an engine. Maybe a bicycle, but IDK. They have steam engines if I recall correctly, but they are weak and with weak metal. I might be able to make ball bearings, but a gyroscope is not likely to be easy. If I could make electricity, I could likely make a simple radio. That could even act as a simple GPS? Actually, you said they have oil? With a bit better iron to steel, maybe I could make a basic 4 piston engine? Hmm, so I guess making any kind of air plane, even basic rotary blade planes is quite frankly impossible even over 20 years? Or adding any kind of engine to a ship. Or making a basic car, or even a train.
OK. What about the like early carts to move material out of mines? That would help reduce slave labor, and atleast get the idea of rails/engines into people's minds. How can I also work on precision engineering? Like, how did we upgrade our manufacturing?
Hmm, could I in the future say I want to make a better flying machine than the hot air ballon, but the romans metal is too poor compared to my home country. In order to do it, I need the measurement to equal my human hair. Would that be accurate enough?
I guess I could also make like a catapult or trebuchet. But I can't think of much more to develop. But all of this together should keep me valuable enough to not be slaved or imprisoned right? And probably prevent Rome from being invaded for a few years, keeping me safer.
Well, yeah, I won't give them all this right away. It'll be slow, I only have so much knowledge. I can't let it all go to waste. You said this won't stop Rome's collapse. What could I invent that would slow, or even stop the collapse?
Hmm, I don't think the paper money solves the inflation issue. America is/was? going through inflation as well. I think I just need to come up with a solution. If I can switch the country to focusing on a tech tree for a bit, and not worry too much about military conquest, then maybe? I'll wait on that for like 10 years though. I'm not going to suggest that while the romans are at the height of their power. But medicine I really want to fix. I don't want to get a cut and die after all. I could probably make alcohol, not sure about hydrogen peroxide. Probably band aids themselves would help.
Hmm. So, I will be changing history regardless? I just don't want so many people to die, or to be slaves, or to be illiterate, and I don't want to die. And a few of these are super easy to do. Like, I could just make a simple printing press, and make like 50 of each book that already exists? Like the library of alexander could then sell tons of books and spread the knowledge while making money.
Well, my thinking is that guns speed up wars. But less people die overall, and most enemies will surrender quickly. Like, cannons on ships means enemy ships are taken down at a distance before they can board. Cannons for sieges means walls will be taken down easier. Modern guns, even muskets will likely be impossible for a while, but seeing a cannon will encourage the metal smiths to be able to shrink it to be hand held, improving metal without me having to encourage it. I can also say that in my country every man and woman has one of these they carry, and it can shoot 6 shots. That would scare romans from expanding too agressively, and explain why I'm helping with this cannon, when it can only do 1 shot per like minute. Also, if I say I need better metal early on, and say it's for powerful bows, they won't believe me. So, I'll make a basic cannon that will explode, and tell everyone to stay far away while I demonstrate using their metal, that causes the cannon itself to explode. I can do that in like 2 years, and show case why we need better weapons.
Well, gunpowder is eventually invented. Having one major power have it way earlier, while chemistry is basically unknown, massively changes it. Besides, I believe China had it by 100AD right? Also, this reinforces how Rome see that the "barbarians" are barbarians, while that doesn't mean all other countries are. If another country is that much more advanced than you, and one of their citizens is able to create these techs from memory, who isn't even a soldier just a basic scholar, then that makes them have to think about their expansion policy. I can even tell them they are free to try to invade my country, but it's not like they will get very close.
Hmm, with that, could I show a map of the world in like 3-5 years? Say that the Americas are uninhabited according to our scouts, but our ships can't make it there safely. The journey is like a full year for us (I think it's only 6 months, but better to be over prepared). This also shows them a goal of after this current war, they can choose to go south into Africa (But mention the desert making it nearly impossible to conquer, or to head East, towards China and India. Since they know the power of India and China, it might encourage them to build even bigger and better ships, that could sail the open ocean.
Also, this reduces the chances for others to get access to the gunpowder. Also, makes the conquest economy have to slowly shift. If it takes that long on the ocean, then the economy naturally has to shift, similar to how England/UK changed. They know that much further north, they will encounter a much stronger than them country. If they head south, they have the desert. If they head East, they have India and China. If they head West, they have a year long journey. In any way they go, they have to progress scientifically and capabilities. They could build ships to go around the silk road. I don't think I could convince them about building the canal, that is likely way too large a project for them. And as for why our country is telling them, they are not. I'm not a politician, only a scholar. I'm just mentioning things "ignorant" of the political ramifications.
Well, I've been writing while talking to you. I'm just reluctant to let go, because I'll likely not get to talk to anyone in English again. And anyone who knows technology or history. I guess I should also write private notebooks with all my knowledge. Like physics, climate change, planets, quantum mechanics, rockets and the rocket formula, neural networks and computers, 3d Printers, dryers, washing machines, etc. Maybe I can teach a few assistants how to read English over the years, as a secret language. And tell them that when I die, I want them to copy my books, and spread them. Maybe write them in English 1st, and translate them to Latin in a few years?
Well, the goal is that for my life, I will be building things they will use or find useful. I want myself to have a bit of power to be able to do what I want. And I want to not be killed or enslaved. And to build my credibility. The books are more for after I die. Just like historians will find books from ancient people after they died, showing schemtics or whatever, and saying they weren't recognized in life. That is fine for me. I'm fine with most of my books being near impossible to understand when I die, but they should help speed up civilization. Even if I can't make a computer in my lifetime, it won't take another 500 years. They will see my math, my inventions, everything humanity spent the last 2,000 years discovering. They will hopefully be able to use that to expand, using knowledge from a old one. Most of the books will be in math or science or engineering. And I'll have 1 or 2 that gives history, politics, maybe even my life. Teach them about uranium, and how it can make electricity, or make a bombs. And tell them the dangers of it. Teach them about combustion engines and cars, and the risk of climate change. Using hydrogen and oxygen to make fuel for rockets. Satellites and GPS systems. Political and economic systems, the pros and cons of each. Economic theory and psychology and sociology. Biology systems and evolution. Dinosaurs and planet formation. Etc. I'll probably have it ordered from the most simple stuff, like numbers going to addition to multiplication, to algebra, to geometry to calculus and linear algebra. I won't remember everything, and some things I only barely understand, like caffeine from coffee or chocolate can wake you up, but it can also cause your heart to die. But How to extract it for an energy drink, IDK.
If I'm going to be changing history, may as well do it to the extreme right? go big or go home. And I can't go home. So, the goal is to get Rome to having satellites by 300AD ;D. 2000 years of progress in 200 years, easy. If I could just build a phone charger, I could go even farther and faster. Too bad,
(Man, that looks incoherent. But the basic idea, guy comes back to Rome, ends up creating an industrial revolution, even without knowing any advanced stuff from today, mostly all HS work. )
Well, the character can make mistakes, I'm aiming more for a HS student level of competence. So, even if it's wrong, if a HS student would think that, it would be fine. This story is more becuase, I keep seeing people who think because they can't explain how a computer works, or how to make a steam engine make eletricity, they can't change history. Or people who say sure, you might know how to make stuff, but you would never be able to get the reputation, money, or speak the language, to be able to do so.
The attack on slavery isn't accidental.
Well, why I was thinking hot air ballon, it requires nearly no costs, can be made by himself over some time, and is significant enough that no one can immediently dismiss him over other things(such as germs). He can't make a trebuchet easily or cheapily. And while he's making the hot air ballon, he can be learning the language. Immersive learning is pretty easy, and Roman/Latin while different from English, is not so different you have nothing.


Basic Summary
A present-day high school student falls asleep one night and wakes up in ancient Rome, roughly 98-100 AD, during the reign of Emperor Trajan. No explanation is given for how or why. The Colosseum stands intact nearby. The language is recognizable as the root of something but completely incomprehensible. They are in a city of roughly half a million people and they are completely alone.
The story follows the character over years, from a frightened, disoriented teenager with a dying phone and half-remembered high school knowledge, to one of the most influential people in the Roman Empire. The central argument of the story is that an ordinary teenager, armed only with a standard modern education and the general shape of how things work, could change history. 
________________


The character wakes up, panics, and gets arrested within the first few hours. Their phone has no signal, no GPS, no internet. They spend the first days doing exactly what a teenager would do: trying to call for help, cycling through apps uselessly, draining the battery before it occurs to them to be careful. The phone has roughly fifty to a hundred hours of active use left. By the time the character thinks to start writing down what they know, the battery is already burning down. The notes they produce are rushed, disorganized, and incomplete. The phone dies within two weeks. Everything from this point forward is what they actually remembered, accurately or not. But honestly, with the book focused so much on internal memory, and how a HS student could change history even without any advanced “modern” knowledge,that it probably doesn’t matter. 
Brought before Roman authorities, they are treated as a curiosity rather than a threat. Without language, the character defaults to what needs no translation: they draw a map. Not just of Europe and the Mediterranean, but the entire world, including continents Rome has no knowledge of. Africa in full. Asia past Persia. Two enormous landmasses across the western ocean. 
When pressed on their origin, the character claims to be from Atlantis(Or maybe from northern places like Norway, IDK). 
Latin acquisition is needed under survival pressure, functional within a few months and conversational within a year. While learning the language and building initial credibility, the character begins constructing a hot air balloon. Treated linen, rope, wicker, a heat source. The goal throughout this phase is explicit and entirely personal: get money, get protection, do not end up a nobody in a world where being a nobody is genuinely dangerous.
The first full balloon flight is probably important. The character becomes the person who flew. the benefits should be obvious for any military, archers, cartography, scouts, etc. Trajan's military campaignsI think is around this time, but not really planned, but regardless, even in peace wasn’t Rome like alwasy at war? The military might want more than one, or maybe they want none?. The character probably cannot build them alone, so they’ll set up a  shop. The motivation might  begin shifting around year four or five. The character is likely in their mid-twenties, financially secure, somewhat comfortable in Latin right?.
Some tech that might spread but IDK,  A plow design mentioned to a blacksmith in year one is now in use across multiple farming regions, mathematical notation demonstrated in their first week has spread through the empire's accountants.,people are boiling water because of a framing about invisible divine creatures that cause illness - the character's workaround for explaining germ theory in terms Romans could accept without demanding the character be executed for blasphemy. So, maybe he decides, let’s see how far to go? The character begins pushing harder and more deliberately. They work on metallurgy, explaining the relationship between carbon and iron to smiths and pushing for better steel because better steel unlocks almost everything else. They develop a crude telescope through trial and error. They experiment carefully with gunpowder. They introduce rail carts in mines, improved ship sails, systematized crop rotation. They make mistakes throughout - some embarrassing, some costly. They confidently announce plans for technologies Romans already have. They misremember details and improvise around gaps. They are not always right. They are just further ahead than anyone around them.
The character builds a cannon they know will fail with available metal, demonstrates it publicly with everyone standing back, and lets it explode. The point should be obvious: here is what is possible, here is why better materials matter.  The character maybe launches an annual writing contest: prizes for the best stories about machines that do the work of a hundred men, vehicles faster than horses, devices that reveal what is invisible to the eye. They are seeding Roman literary culture with technological imagination, creating a civilization that has been dreaming about technology for a generation before the technology exists. 
Throughout this period, the character will probably have to navigate Roman politics with increasing sophistication and increasing stakes. Being valuable is protection, but being too powerful is dangerous. Senators might attempt to use them as a tool in factional games they only partially understand. Or maybe the other scholars are jealous? Priests are uncertain whether the invisible creatures framing complements or threatens their authority. They might begin teaching English to two or three trusted people over these years, framed as their homeland's written language. It functions as a private cipher for personal notes that cannot safely be read by anyone else. Well probably not? How similar is Latin to english?


Trajan eventually dies. The character probably does not know when this will happen, as they are a teenager. The succession to Hadrian requires re-establishing every political relationship from scratch with a new emperor who has different priorities - less interested in conquest, more philosophical, in some ways more receptive to long-term projects, in other ways an entirely new unknown. But IDK about the senators, don’t those stay in office?
He might share The world map with a specific framing: lands exist far to the west across the ocean, apparently uninhabited according to Atlantean scouts, reachable but requiring a year's voyage in ships Rome does not yet possess. This is partly true and partly a calculated lie. The intended effect is to redirect Roman expansion ambition toward ocean exploration and the shipbuilding and navigation capability that requires, rather than toward more European conquest. It also quietly implies that the character's homeland is out there, in a direction Rome cannot currently reach.
The final phase focuses on institution-building. The printing press and writing contest need to survive the character. A patronage system for craftsmen working on specific problems needs to outlast its founder. The encyclopedia project - a set of texts ordered from basic arithmetic through to physics and engineering, written first in English and partially translated to Latin - is designed to be found and decoded long after the character's death. It assumes nothing about the reader's prior knowledge. It starts simple and builds. It includes what the character remembers about chemistry, biology, astronomy, political theory, and the shape of technologies that do not yet exist. It is a ladder, not a shortcut.